Mobile app documentation draft. (#1207)
grafana/oncall: docs/sources/mobile-app/_index.md

---
aliases:
  - /docs/oncall/latest/mobile-app/
keywords:
  - Mobile App
title: Mobile App
weight: 300
---

> # Grafana OnCall Mobile App

Reviewer: let's mention somewhere that it's in Beta

Mobile app is one of the ways to receive notifications from Grafana OnCall. OnCall provides multiple ways of delivering notifications to give our users an option to use some of them as a backup. We suggest backing up your Slack, MS Teams, phone calls with notifications delivered to the mobile app or vise versa.

> The current version of the app serves the only one purpose to act as a notification method. I's missing some features like a calendar editor or even a list of alert groups. This is a known limitation. Stay tuned, we're working on it!

Reviewer: good idea. we can clarify the "status" (beta/preview) here.

> The current version of the app serves the only one purpose to act as a notification method. I's missing some features like a calendar editor or even a list of alert groups. This is a known limitation. Stay tuned, we're working on it!

Reviewer 2: Oh - I can add a section like this, if we'd like. Or we can add a change log to the bottom of the doc to reflect most recent updates there.

> Download Grafana OnCall Mobile app in Google Play and Apple App Store (links todo after publishing). 

Reviewer 3: https://play.google.com/apps/testing/com.grafana.oncall.prod
this is gonna be the android one

Reviewer 2: Do we have the Apple App store link yet?

Reviewer 3: nope

## Connecting mobile app to the OnCall instance

Connecting mobile app to OnCall should be pretty straightforward. QR is used to transfer authentication token. The QR code has a pretty short timeout, so making screenshots to authenticate later won't work. One mobile application could be associated with one Grafana OnCall user.

**Open Source specific:**

OnCall OSS relies on Grafana Cloud as on relay for push notifications. Connecting Grafana OnCall Open Source to Grafana Cloud through OnCall -> Cloud is a requirement for mobile app to work.

QR code includes not only authentication token but also backend URL. Grafana OnCall's "engine" should be reachable from the same network as your mobile device (ideally from the internet).

## Routing alerts to the mobile app

> Mobile notifacation's won't work until you add "Mobile push" and "Mobile push important" to your notification steps in your Notification Preferences (Grafana OnCall -> Users -> View My profile -> User Info).

Reviewer: note that we're working on an onboarding wizard where the app will guide the user to set this up properly. will probably take a few weeks though

"Mobile push" will generate typical push notification in your mobile device.

> "Mobile push important" will generate previleged push notification. It should be able to bypass device's Do Not Disturb mode and designed for critical alerts only. Please test how exactly it works with your device before relying on it.

Reviewer 3: I would add a note for android devices
In order to be sure DND gets bypassed users should allow the android `Critical Message Channel` notification channel to Override Do Not Disturb

---
title: Grafana OnCall mobile app
aliases:
  - /docs/oncall/latest/mobile-app/
keywords:
  - Mobile App
  - oncall
  - notification
  - push notification
weight: 1200
---

# Grafana OnCall Mobile App

>**Note**: This application is currently in beta

The Grafana OnCall mobile app allows teams to monitor and respond to critical system events from anywhere.

> On-call engineers can reimagine incident response with real-time alerts, on-call notifications, and a growing feature set.

Reviewer: The reality is that these features are table stakes, and we're being handwavey here about the future.  Which is OK but calling this "reimagining" is a big stretch. If I was a customer or prospect, this wouldn't land well

Reviewer 2: Roger that! Totally agree and it's a bit too market-ey anyways. It was just reused content from the app store description which is more market-ey, by nature. Will remove and reword this section to set more realistic expectations.

## About Grafana OnCall mobile app
Grafana OnCall for iOS and Android allows you to:

- Override Do Not Disturb on your device to ensure delivery of critical alerts
- View and troubleshoot alert details from your mobile device
- Receive push notifications according to your personal notification settings
- Login with a quick and secure QR code authorization

The OnCall mobile app allows users to receive push notifications as part of their notification policy.

> Push notifications are one of the many notification options in Grafana OnCall.Regardless of your notification preferences, it’s recommended that you configure a diverse set of notification methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push notifications are one of the many notification options in Grafana OnCall. 
 Consider using multiple notification methods (e.g. mobile app and phone/SMS) to remain available in case the internet or phone network degrades connectivity.
```

Reviewer 2: implemented this in my last commit

The current version of the mobile app includes limited functionality and serves primarily as a notification method. The mobile app is in development, and some features are not yet available.
Stay tuned, we're working on it!

## Before you begin

The Grafana OnCall mobile app is intended to be used as an extension of your Grafana OnCall instance.

> Grafana OnCall is available for Grafana Cloud and Grafana open source users.

Reviewer: not enterprise?

Reviewer 2: Not sure about this. The [OnCall product page](https://grafana.com/oss/oncall/) states that the three options are open source, grafana cloud, or cloud pro.

- You must have a Grafana OnCall account to use this application
- Download Grafana OnCall Mobile app

Mobile app download - [Google Play](https://play.google.com/apps/testing/com.grafana.oncall.prod) and [Apple App Store](link)

## Connect your Grafana OnCall account 

The OnCall mobile app uses a QR code authentication to connect to your Grafana OnCall instance.
You can associate one Grafana OnCall user with your OnCall mobile app.

To connect your account in the mobile app:
1. Open the Grafana OnCall mobile app

> 1. Click **Sign in** and enter your Grafana Cloud credentials

Reviewer: there are no credentials to be filled in. the QR code does all that.

Reviewer 2: That's for clarifying, I thought from the Figma screens you also had to sign in first. Which seemed odd, so makes sense that's not the case.

Reviewer: the qr code scan is effectively the sign in.  it's pretty neat (and my first time working with this process)

> 1. Follow the instructions in the app to locate your QR code

Reviewer: since the app explains this, and we have a section below on this, this seems a bit redundant

Reviewer 2: I agree, it felt a bit redundant writing it here too. I'd like to get an OnCall mobile app video created to replace these written instructions after a couple more releases. 

For the sake of POC or prospects exploring docs before downloading the app, is it cool if we leave it for now until the onboarding wizard is released?

1. Use the mobile app to scan the QR code in your User profile
1. Once the scan is successful, your mobile app is connected

### Where can I find my QR code?

To access your QR code:
1. Open Grafana OnCall from your desktop
1. Navigate to the **Users** tab, then click **View my profile**
1. Click **Mobile app connection** in your profile

>**Note**: The QR code will timeout for security purposes - Screenshots of the QR code are unlikely to work for authentication.

> ### Connect to your open source Grafana OnCall account

Reviewer 4: There is a section in the OSS guide on cloud connection we might want to update: https://github.com/grafana/oncall/blob/dev/docs/sources/open-source/_index.md#grafana-oss-cloud-setup

Do we want to duplicate the mobile app instruction in the OSS guide as well: https://github.com/grafana/oncall/blob/dev/docs/sources/open-source/_index.md#grafana-oncall-open-source-guide? There are some OSS-specific instructions for Slack, Telegram, Twilio and Email setup, should the mobile app connection instruction be there as well?

Reviewer 2: Thanks @vadimkerr! I think that's a great idea. I'll add this piece to the OSS doc to maintain that "all in one place" consistency. And the doc team is working on a future state of shared content to be able to publish select docs to OSS vs Cloud docs. That should eventually reduce confusion about which content is relevant to which users.

Grafana OnCall OSS relies on Grafana Cloud as on relay for push notifications. You must first connect your Grafana OnCall OSS to Grafana Cloud for the mobile app to work.
To connect to Grafana Cloud, refer to the Cloud page in your OSS Grafana OnCall instance. 

> For Grafana OnCall OSS, the QR code includes an authentication token along with a backend URL. Grafana OnCall's engine should be reachable from the same network as your mobile device, preferably from the internet.

Reviewer: "Grafana OnCall's engine" is confusing here as we are talking about both "Grafana Oncall OSS" and "Grafana Cloud [relay]". I think this should be "Your Grafana Oncall OSS instance"

The current version of the mobile app includes limited functionality and serves primarily as a notification method. The mobile app is in development, and some features are not yet available.
Stay tuned, we're working on it!

## Before you begin

The Grafana OnCall mobile app is intended to be used as an extension of your Grafana OnCall instance.
Grafana OnCall is available for Grafana Cloud and Grafana open source users.

- You must have a Grafana OnCall account to use this application
- Download Grafana OnCall mobile app

Mobile app download - [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/apps/testing/com.grafana.oncall.prod)
Grafana OnCall for iOS coming soon.

## Connect your Grafana OnCall account 

The OnCall mobile app uses a QR code authentication to connect to your Grafana OnCall instance.
You can associate one Grafana OnCall user with your OnCall mobile app.

To connect your account in the mobile app:
1. Open the Grafana OnCall mobile app
2. Click **Sign in** and follow the instructions in the app to locate your QR code

> 4. Use the mobile app to scan the QR code in your User profile

Reviewer: "in your User profile" is a bit confusing here as it's the first time we mention it, people may think it refers to their profile within the app, which doesn't exist yet. I would just remove these words as we already said to follow instructions in the app to find where the QR code is.

anyway, this is maybe nitpicking. so do as you like with this feedback, let's get the docs out :)

Reviewer 2: All feedback, including nits, is welcome and helpful! I appreciate you taking the time to consider the more subtle details and share your perspective. 

I went ahead and removed that step to simplify the guidance. As you said, the app will get users through these steps anyways.
